README.md, before:

# MCP Healthcare Triage System

A comprehensive multi-agent architecture built on Model Context Protocol (MCP) and A2A (Agent-to-Agent) communication. This system coordinates specialized agents (Patient Data, Triage, Insurance) through a Router agent to handle healthcare triage scenarios.

## Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     MCP Server (Port 8000)                  │
│              SQLite Database + Tool Registry                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                            ▲
                            │ HTTP/REST
        ┌───────────────────┼───────────────────┐
        │                   │                   │
        ▼                   ▼                   ▼
┌──────────────┐    ┌──────────────┐    ┌──────────────┐
│ Data Agent   │    │Triage Agent  │    │Insurance Agent │
│ (Port 8011)  │    │ (Port 8012)  │    │ (Port 8013)  │
└──────────────┘    └──────────────┘    └──────────────┘
        ▲                   ▲                   ▲
        │                   │                   │
        └───────────────────┼───────────────────┘
                            │ A2A RPC
                            │
                    ┌───────▼────────┐
                    │ Router Agent   │
                    │  (Port 8010)   │
                    └────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── README.md                      # This file
├── requirements.txt               # Python dependencies
├── database_setup.py              # SQLite initialization
├── demo.py                        # Example client
├── common/                        # Shared utilities
│   ├── a2a.py                    # A2A runtime & JSON-RPC
│   ├── db.py                     # Async database helpers
│   ├── message_utils.py          # Message construction
│   └── __init__.py
├── sdk/                           # Core data types
│   ├── types.py                  # Pydantic models
│   ├── agent.py                  # Agent types
│   ├── task.py                   # Task management
│   └── __init__.py
├── shared/                        # Backwards compatibility
│   ├── a2a_handler.py            # Re-exports from common
│   ├── message_utils.py          # Re-exports from common
│   └── __init__.py
├── mcp_server/                    # MCP Server (Port 8000)
│   ├── app.py                    # FastAPI application
│   ├── database.py               # Database interface
│   └── __init__.py
└── agents/                        # Specialized agents
    ├── router/                   # Router Agent (Port 8010)
    │   ├── main.py              # LangGraph workflow
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── data/                     # Data Agent (Port 8011)
    │   ├── main.py              # MCP client for records
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── support/                  # Triage Agent (Port 8012)
    │   ├── main.py              # Customer guidance
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── payments/                 # Insurance Agent (Port 8013)
    │   ├── main.py              # Billing responses
    │   └── __init__.py
    └── __init__.py
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- `pip` and virtual environment support

### 1. Clone & Navigate to Project

```bash
cd /path/to/MCP_multiagent
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

```bash
# Create isolated Python environment
python3 -m venv venv

# Activate it
source venv/bin/activate  # macOS/Linux
# OR
venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**What's in `requirements.txt`:**

- **FastAPI / Uvicorn**: Web framework for agents and MCP server
- **LangGraph**: Workflow orchestration for the router
- **HTTPx**: Async HTTP client for A2A communication
- **aiosqlite**: Async SQLite driver
- **Pydantic**: Data validation
- **python-dotenv**: Environment configuration
- **sse-starlette**: Server-Sent Events for real-time updates
- Additional utilities (orjson, fastmcp, etc.)

### 4. Initialize Database

```bash
python database_setup.py
```

Creates `triage.db` with sample patients and encounters.

### 5. Start All Services

**Terminal 1 — MCP Server:**
```bash
python -m mcp_server.app
# Listens on http://localhost:8000
```

**Terminal 2 — Data Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.data.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8011
```

**Terminal 3 — Triage Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.support.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8012
```

**Terminal 4 — Insurance Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.payments.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8013
```

**Terminal 5 — Router Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.router.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8010
```

### 6. Test the System

In a new terminal (with `venv` activated):

```bash
python demo.py
```

Or run Jupyter scenarios:

```bash
jupyter notebook Assignment5_notebook.ipynb
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
# Database path (default: ./database.sqlite)
A2A_DB_PATH=./triage.db

# MCP Server URL (for agents to reach it)
MCP_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:8000

# Agent RPC endpoints (used by router)
DATA_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8011/rpc
TRIAGE_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8012/rpc
INSURANCE_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8013/rpc

# Router endpoint (used by clients)
ROUTER_RPC=http://localhost:8010/rpc
```

Load environment file:
```bash
export $(cat .env | xargs)
```

## API Overview

### MCP Server Endpoints

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/tools/list` | GET | List available tools |
| `/tools/call` | POST | Invoke a tool |
| `/events/stream` | GET | Stream audit events (SSE) |
| `/health` | GET | Health check |

**Available Tools:**
- `get_patient` — Fetch patient record by ID
- `list_patients` — List patients (optionally filtered by status)
- `update_patient` — Modify patient fields
- `create_case` — Open a triage case
- `get_patient_history` — Retrieve encounter history

### A2A Agent RPC Methods

All agents support JSON-RPC 2.0:

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": "unique-id",
  "method": "message/send",
  "params": {
    "message": {
      "messageId": "uuid",
      "role": "user",
      "parts": [{"text": "Your query here"}]
    }
  }
}
```

**Methods:**
- `message/send` — Synchronous request
- `message/send_stream` — Streaming response
- `task/get` — Retrieve task by ID
- `task/cancel` — Cancel a running task

### Agent Metadata

Each agent exposes metadata at `/.well-known/agent-card.json`:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8010/.well-known/agent-card.json
```

Returns agent name, capabilities, skills, and documentation URL.

## Usage Examples

### 1. Query Customer Data

```python
import asyncio
import httpx
from sdk.types import Message, MessageSendParams, Role
from common.message_utils import create_text_message

async def query_router():
    msg = create_text_message("Get patient information for ID 5", role=Role.user)
    params = {"message": msg.model_dump()}
    
    async with httpx.AsyncClient() as client:
        response = await client.post(
            "http://localhost:8010/rpc",
            json={
                "jsonrpc": "2.0",
                "id": "demo",
                "method": "message/send",
                "params": params
            }
        )
    
    result = response.json()
    print(result["result"]["status"]["message"]["parts"][0]["text"])

asyncio.run(query_router())
```

### 2. Multi-Intent Scenario

```python
query = "Update my date of birth to 1980-12-01 and show my encounter history"
# Router automatically routes to both Data and Triage agents
# Combines responses into a single coherent answer
```

### 3. Escalation Flow

```python
query = "Do I need a referral and what is my copay?"
# Router detects coverage keywords → routes to Insurance agent
# Insurance agent provides specialized response
```

## Workflow: Request Flow

1. **Client Request** → Router Agent (`:8010/rpc`)
2. **Router Intent Classification** → Determines which specialist(s) to call
3. **Specialist Invocation** → Data/Support/Payment agents respond via A2A RPC
4. **Response Aggregation** → Router combines specialist outputs
5. **Final Response** → Returned to client with unified message

### Routing Logic

| Query Keywords | Route | Agents |
|---|---|---|
| `insurance`, `coverage`, `copay` | Insurance | Insurance Agent |
| `patient`, `history`, `chart` | Data then Triage | Data Agent → Triage Agent |
| Default | Triage | Triage Agent |

## Database Schema

### patients
```sql
CREATE TABLE patients (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT,
  date_of_birth TEXT,
  status TEXT,  -- 'stable', 'monitoring', 'urgent'
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### cases
```sql
CREATE TABLE cases (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  patient_id INTEGER,
  complaint TEXT,
  urgency TEXT,
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'open',
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### encounters
```sql
CREATE TABLE encounters (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  patient_id INTEGER,
  channel TEXT,  -- 'email', 'phone', 'chat'
  notes TEXT,
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Deactivating Virtual Environment

When done:

```bash
deactivate
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Kill existing process on port (e.g., 8010)
lsof -i :8010 | grep LISTEN | awk '{print $2}' | xargs kill -9
```

### Database Lock
```bash
# Remove stale database
rm -f triage.db database.sqlite
python database_setup.py
```

### Import Errors
```bash
# Ensure you're in venv and installed dependencies
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Agents Can't Connect
- Verify all services are running on expected ports
- Check `.env` contains correct endpoint URLs
- Test connectivity: `curl http://localhost:8000/health`

## Key Features

✅ **Modular Architecture** — Each agent is independently deployable  
✅ **LangGraph Orchestration** — Router uses state graphs for complex workflows  
✅ **A2A Protocol** — Standard JSON-RPC for inter-agent communication  
✅ **MCP Integration** — Agents delegate data operations to centralized MCP server  
✅ **Async/Await** — Full async support for concurrent operations  
✅ **Pydantic Validation** — Type-safe message passing  
✅ **Real-time Events** — SSE streaming for audit logs and updates  

## Testing

Run the included Jupyter notebook:

```bash
jupyter notebook Assignment5_notebook.ipynb
```

Or execute demo scenarios:

```bash
python demo.py
```

This tests:
- Simple patient lookups
- Multi-agent coordination
- Complex search queries
- Escalation workflows
- Multi-intent requests

## Performance Notes

- **Database**: SQLite with `aiosqlite` for async access
- **Concurrency**: Agent requests are non-blocking via httpx
- **Memory**: Tasks stored in-memory; consider persistent storage for production
- **Scalability**: Current design suitable for small-to-medium deployments

## License

Assignment 5 — Educational project

## Support

For issues or questions, refer to:
- [Assignment5_notebook.ipynb](Assignment5_notebook.ipynb) — Full scenario walkthrough
- [demo.py](demo.py) — Working examples
- Individual agent `main.py` files for implementation details

---

**Last Updated**: December 2025  
**Python Version**: 3.10+  
**Status**: ✅ Production-ready

Commit message:

Expand README with healthcare business context

README.md, after:

# MCP Healthcare Triage System

A comprehensive multi-agent architecture built on Model Context Protocol (MCP) and A2A (Agent-to-Agent) communication. This system coordinates specialized agents (Patient Data, Triage, Insurance) through a Router agent to handle healthcare triage scenarios.

## Purpose and Business Sense

This project models a healthcare triage workflow where incoming patient requests are screened, enriched with clinical context, and routed to the right specialist response. The objective is to improve intake efficiency while ensuring patients receive timely, consistent guidance aligned with their symptoms and coverage questions.

**Why this matters for healthcare operations:**
- **Faster intake decisions**: the Router and Triage agents help categorize urgency and provide first-pass guidance without manual handoffs.
- **Single source of data**: the Patient Data agent surfaces chart and encounter history so responses are grounded in context.
- **Coverage clarity**: the Insurance agent answers benefits and copay questions that often block care decisions.
- **Scalable coordination**: agents are independently deployable, allowing clinics to scale triage and coverage workflows as demand grows.

## Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     MCP Server (Port 8000)                  │
│              SQLite Database + Tool Registry                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                            ▲
                            │ HTTP/REST
        ┌───────────────────┼───────────────────┐
        │                   │                   │
        ▼                   ▼                   ▼
┌──────────────┐    ┌──────────────┐    ┌──────────────┐
│ Data Agent   │    │Triage Agent  │    │Insurance Agent │
│ (Port 8011)  │    │ (Port 8012)  │    │ (Port 8013)  │
└──────────────┘    └──────────────┘    └──────────────┘
        ▲                   ▲                   ▲
        │                   │                   │
        └───────────────────┼───────────────────┘
                            │ A2A RPC
                            │
                    ┌───────▼────────┐
                    │ Router Agent   │
                    │  (Port 8010)   │
                    └────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── README.md                      # This file
├── requirements.txt               # Python dependencies
├── database_setup.py              # SQLite initialization
├── demo.py                        # Example client
├── common/                        # Shared utilities
│   ├── a2a.py                    # A2A runtime & JSON-RPC
│   ├── db.py                     # Async database helpers
│   ├── message_utils.py          # Message construction
│   └── __init__.py
├── sdk/                           # Core data types
│   ├── types.py                  # Pydantic models
│   ├── agent.py                  # Agent types
│   ├── task.py                   # Task management
│   └── __init__.py
├── shared/                        # Backwards compatibility
│   ├── a2a_handler.py            # Re-exports from common
│   ├── message_utils.py          # Re-exports from common
│   └── __init__.py
├── mcp_server/                    # MCP Server (Port 8000)
│   ├── app.py                    # FastAPI application
│   ├── database.py               # Database interface
│   └── __init__.py
└── agents/                        # Specialized agents
    ├── router/                   # Router Agent (Port 8010)
    │   ├── main.py              # LangGraph workflow
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── data/                     # Data Agent (Port 8011)
    │   ├── main.py              # MCP client for records
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── support/                  # Triage Agent (Port 8012)
    │   ├── main.py              # Customer guidance
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── payments/                 # Insurance Agent (Port 8013)
    │   ├── main.py              # Billing responses
    │   └── __init__.py
    └── __init__.py
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- `pip` and virtual environment support

### 1. Clone & Navigate to Project

```bash
cd /path/to/MCP_multiagent
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

```bash
# Create isolated Python environment
python3 -m venv venv

# Activate it
source venv/bin/activate  # macOS/Linux
# OR
venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
```

### 3. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**What's in `requirements.txt`:**

- **FastAPI / Uvicorn**: Web framework for agents and MCP server
- **LangGraph**: Workflow orchestration for the router
- **HTTPx**: Async HTTP client for A2A communication
- **aiosqlite**: Async SQLite driver
- **Pydantic**: Data validation
- **python-dotenv**: Environment configuration
- **sse-starlette**: Server-Sent Events for real-time updates
- Additional utilities (orjson, fastmcp, etc.)

### 4. Initialize Database

```bash
python database_setup.py
```

Creates `triage.db` with sample patients and encounters.

### 5. Start All Services

**Terminal 1 — MCP Server:**
```bash
python -m mcp_server.app
# Listens on http://localhost:8000
```

**Terminal 2 — Data Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.data.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8011
```

**Terminal 3 — Triage Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.support.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8012
```

**Terminal 4 — Insurance Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.payments.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8013
```

**Terminal 5 — Router Agent:**
```bash
python -m agents.router.main
# Listens on http://localhost:8010
```

### 6. Test the System

In a new terminal (with `venv` activated):

```bash
python demo.py
```

Or run Jupyter scenarios:

```bash
jupyter notebook Assignment5_notebook.ipynb
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
# Database path (default: ./database.sqlite)
A2A_DB_PATH=./triage.db

# MCP Server URL (for agents to reach it)
MCP_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:8000

# Agent RPC endpoints (used by router)
DATA_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8011/rpc
TRIAGE_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8012/rpc
INSURANCE_AGENT_RPC=http://localhost:8013/rpc

# Router endpoint (used by clients)
ROUTER_RPC=http://localhost:8010/rpc
```

Load environment file:
```bash
export $(cat .env | xargs)
```

## API Overview

### MCP Server Endpoints

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose |
|----------|--------|---------|
| `/tools/list` | GET | List available tools |
| `/tools/call` | POST | Invoke a tool |
| `/events/stream` | GET | Stream audit events (SSE) |
| `/health` | GET | Health check |

**Available Tools:**
- `get_patient` — Fetch patient record by ID
- `list_patients` — List patients (optionally filtered by status)
- `update_patient` — Modify patient fields
- `create_case` — Open a triage case
- `get_patient_history` — Retrieve encounter history

### A2A Agent RPC Methods

All agents support JSON-RPC 2.0:

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": "unique-id",
  "method": "message/send",
  "params": {
    "message": {
      "messageId": "uuid",
      "role": "user",
      "parts": [{"text": "Your query here"}]
    }
  }
}
```

**Methods:**
- `message/send` — Synchronous request
- `message/send_stream` — Streaming response
- `task/get` — Retrieve task by ID
- `task/cancel` — Cancel a running task

### Agent Metadata

Each agent exposes metadata at `/.well-known/agent-card.json`:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8010/.well-known/agent-card.json
```

Returns agent name, capabilities, skills, and documentation URL.

## Usage Examples

### 1. Query Customer Data

```python
import asyncio
import httpx
from sdk.types import Message, MessageSendParams, Role
from common.message_utils import create_text_message

async def query_router():
    msg = create_text_message("Get patient information for ID 5", role=Role.user)
    params = {"message": msg.model_dump()}
    
    async with httpx.AsyncClient() as client:
        response = await client.post(
            "http://localhost:8010/rpc",
            json={
                "jsonrpc": "2.0",
                "id": "demo",
                "method": "message/send",
                "params": params
            }
        )
    
    result = response.json()
    print(result["result"]["status"]["message"]["parts"][0]["text"])

asyncio.run(query_router())
```

### 2. Multi-Intent Scenario

```python
query = "Update my date of birth to 1980-12-01 and show my encounter history"
# Router automatically routes to both Data and Triage agents
# Combines responses into a single coherent answer
```

### 3. Escalation Flow

```python
query = "Do I need a referral and what is my copay?"
# Router detects coverage keywords → routes to Insurance agent
# Insurance agent provides specialized response
```

## Workflow: Request Flow

1. **Client Request** → Router Agent (`:8010/rpc`)
2. **Router Intent Classification** → Determines which specialist(s) to call
3. **Specialist Invocation** → Data/Support/Payment agents respond via A2A RPC
4. **Response Aggregation** → Router combines specialist outputs
5. **Final Response** → Returned to client with unified message

### Routing Logic

| Query Keywords | Route | Agents |
|---|---|---|
| `insurance`, `coverage`, `copay` | Insurance | Insurance Agent |
| `patient`, `history`, `chart` | Data then Triage | Data Agent → Triage Agent |
| Default | Triage | Triage Agent |

## Database Schema

### patients
```sql
CREATE TABLE patients (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT,
  date_of_birth TEXT,
  status TEXT,  -- 'stable', 'monitoring', 'urgent'
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### cases
```sql
CREATE TABLE cases (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  patient_id INTEGER,
  complaint TEXT,
  urgency TEXT,
  status TEXT DEFAULT 'open',
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

### encounters
```sql
CREATE TABLE encounters (
  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
  patient_id INTEGER,
  channel TEXT,  -- 'email', 'phone', 'chat'
  notes TEXT,
  created_at TEXT DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
```

## Deactivating Virtual Environment

When done:

```bash
deactivate
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Kill existing process on port (e.g., 8010)
lsof -i :8010 | grep LISTEN | awk '{print $2}' | xargs kill -9
```

### Database Lock
```bash
# Remove stale database
rm -f triage.db database.sqlite
python database_setup.py
```

### Import Errors
```bash
# Ensure you're in venv and installed dependencies
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Agents Can't Connect
- Verify all services are running on expected ports
- Check `.env` contains correct endpoint URLs
- Test connectivity: `curl http://localhost:8000/health`

## Key Features

✅ **Modular Architecture** — Each agent is independently deployable  
✅ **LangGraph Orchestration** — Router uses state graphs for complex workflows  
✅ **A2A Protocol** — Standard JSON-RPC for inter-agent communication  
✅ **MCP Integration** — Agents delegate data operations to centralized MCP server  
✅ **Async/Await** — Full async support for concurrent operations  
✅ **Pydantic Validation** — Type-safe message passing  
✅ **Real-time Events** — SSE streaming for audit logs and updates  

## Testing

Run the included Jupyter notebook:

```bash
jupyter notebook Assignment5_notebook.ipynb
```

Or execute demo scenarios:

```bash
python demo.py
```

This tests:
- Simple patient lookups
- Multi-agent coordination
- Complex search queries
- Escalation workflows
- Multi-intent requests

## Performance Notes

- **Database**: SQLite with `aiosqlite` for async access
- **Concurrency**: Agent requests are non-blocking via httpx
- **Memory**: Tasks stored in-memory; consider persistent storage for production
- **Scalability**: Current design suitable for small-to-medium deployments

## License

Assignment 5 — Educational project

## Support

For issues or questions, refer to:
- [Assignment5_notebook.ipynb](Assignment5_notebook.ipynb) — Full scenario walkthrough
- [demo.py](demo.py) — Working examples
- Individual agent `main.py` files for implementation details

---

**Last Updated**: December 2025  
**Python Version**: 3.10+  
**Status**: ✅ Production-ready
